Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
So, in the last lectures, we learned how to sketch, we learned how to think our way through basic wire frames,
and even learned how to use POP so that we can add
some basic interaction to the sketches we had before.
Now it's time to upgrade and add a little bit of fidelity, tiny bit of fidelity, we're not going to make mockups yet, what we're
going to do is we're going to learn how to use Balsamiq.
I think, as a prospective product manager, It really helps
to have one of the wireframing tools under your belt,
so I picked the tool that is probably the most popular
for low fidelity wireframes and also happens
to be probably the fastest as well.
That's the reason why I like it.
At the end of this lecture, you'll know
how to get into Balsamiq and be dangerous,
make pretty much whatever you want.
It's a very simple application.
It's not going to take us a ton of time to get up and running in it.
If you're the type that does not like tutorials of software
and someone showing you what you should
care about and think about first, skip the lecture,
see you in the next lecture. For the rest of you guys,
let's jump in.
All right. So this is what Balsamiq's website looks like.
They offer their service in two different ways.
One is a web version and one is a desktop version.
Now, there's pros and cons to both. The web version
is cheaper and the desktop version is more expensive,
but the web version is a subscription, whereas
the desktop app is one payment one time.
For you guys out there that don't know if you want to
buy this stuff, don't worry, they have a free trial,
and you can try either one you want. If you don't
want to save something on your computer,
go for the web app, if you're fine saving stuff
on your computer, I prefer using the desktop app,
it's faster, it's easier to use, in my opinion, and you
don't have to wait for your browser to constantly update.
All right, so take your pick.
Download whichever one you want to do.
I'll see you as soon as you get into it.
Really fast forward to the future.
Okay.
All right, so this is what the desktop application looks like.
It's very similar to the web application,
in fact, I'm not even sure there's anything really
that much different about it.
Now, Balsamiq is very, very simple.
There is just this screen.
Not only is this application fast, it is very, very simple,
another one of the good things about it. People often
fault Balsamiq for being simple, but I challenge you
to find something you can't wireframe with Balsamiq.
They are simple, but they've really thought out
pretty much everything in their app.
All right, so the way that this works is pretty much
like any editing tool that uses a canvas and then
has tools, like Photoshop, like a sketch.
If you're not familiar with those, don't worry.
Right here is the canvas, okay?
This is where we're going to take elements and add it to
the canvas, manipulate them, and create our wireframe.
Now, this canvas here is not defined
as in there are no boundaries to it.
I can scroll up and down and just go on for ever.
There's really no limit to where I can place things in this area.
Alright, so at the top you can see all of the
elements that you can use, they have them sectioned
off into little groups here, which is the way that
you find them. There is no search for some reason,
I believe they removed it from a previous version,
so you're going to have to get used to these categories.
All right, so they have categories for
pretty much everything you would want.
Now, if you want to add something to the canvas, you
can drag and drop or just double click. If you wanted
to do add an iPhone, we go over to the iOS section, which
holds a bunch of elements for mobile applications, and
I just double click an iPhone.
All right, so now that it's in the canvas, it's really easy.
I have boundary boxes up here if I wanted to shrink
it or grow it in any way, it'll tell me how many pixels it is,
if you want to get exact. Over here, what
we have is called the inspector and the inspector
allows us to add modifications to our elements.
I can manually pick the size of it or the positioning.
Notice how, as I move this, the position changes, it's an
absolute position. I can change it between things like the
iPhone 4, iPhone 5, I can make it landscape versus portrait.
I can even add in some really helpful stuff, like top bars
and lower bars, which are really helpful, because
remember the first thing we do, with iOS at least, we always
add a navigation bar, so that saves us time. It also
gives you the option to change the layering
of your canvas and your wireframing, and
let me show you what that means.
Let's say I wanted to add this iOS keyboard onto
my iPhone, let's make it line up.
Great.
Now, what you have to keep in mind is that these two elements are quite literally stacked on top of each other, it's like paper.
That's the easiest way of thinking about it.
Right now, the keyboard is on top because I created it second,
but if I wanted the keyboard to be behind
the iPhone for whatever reason, I would just send it backward,
right? So when I hit "Send it backward" it goes back
one layer behind whatever is directly behind it, or
I can send it at the bottom, or I can
send it to the front with these buttons.
All right. Pretty simple, right?
So let's start throwing some more elements on the page.
We have the option of adding things like forms,
these are incredibly helpful if you ever need to create a form.
Incredibly tedious, but with Balsamiq, you
can do it pretty easily.
Buttons are over here, very easy to change the text
just by double clicking them, so we can change it
to "Buy now" or whatever it is, you can change the color,
you can add icons, and we'll talk about icons in just a second.
You can create a form then by just throwing down a
bunch of stuff that you would normally see in
a form, and notice this one thing, as I move elements
on the canvas, it will bring up guidelines, little grids,
and this is incredibly helpful for aligning things. Specifically,
if I was making a form, I would want
everything to line up on the left, right?
Well, I can do that really easily without having to zoom in
by clicking the second element, and then just
lining it up right there with the left end. I can also
line it up with the middle of the element.
It's tricky, but there it goes.
If I want to do center alignment, or with the middle
of the design, which actually happens to be right
there, because it's the middle of the canvas.
All right.
Let's see what else we can add in it.
Let's throw in some text right there, we'll call it a form.
Let's see what else we can add in.
Let's say we want to grab some numbers, maybe turn
something on and off right there, line them up, and
there you go, you have the most basic form ever made.
Now, I also have the option of adding icons.
Now, I said I will get back to these. What an icon is it's
just going to be a blank space whenever you add it,
but if you double click this magic thing, it gives you
an enormous option of icons you can choose from.
Now, don't worry, it's not going to send these icons
into a box, it's going to take the place of the box.
They have hundreds and hundreds of icons here.
You can pick the size that you want and it'll give you a preview.
You can also search over here for whatever
specifically you wanted.
If I want to get really specific, I'm looking for a rupee.
There we go.
That's actually the symbol, great.
Now I can use that for whatever I was planning to use it for.
Similarly, I can add icons to things like buttons. So, in
the button right here, over here I can add an icon.
Okay.
So if I wanted to add a rupee to that, there you go.
Now we added a rupee, and I can also
change the size to make it fit,
so it doesn't stick out so much.
And there you go.
All right, so that is the basics of Balsamiq,
there's not that much left to go over.
You can add certain things like states to buttons.
So you have this button.
When I say a state, a state could be clicked or unclicked,
for instance, or greyed out. It could be the state,
it could be selected, in focus, or disabled. Let's say
selected, see how it changes the color.
That's helpful if I'm putting wireframes in a row,
showing a sequence, or if I want to get really specific
saying "When this button is depressed, then you see
these other elements on the screen." Over here, in the
Common section, you'll see all the common things,
you would see, image boxes are right here,
Notice how before, in wireframes, typically you won't have the image or sketch out the image, you'll put a box and write "image."
But if you wanted to, you could put something in.
I like doing it like this, clicking it and hitting Enter,
and then putting "image" in the middle, so
you can see that, hey, this is an image.
You can also just double tap on it if you wanted to add
an image in that container, it'll insert an image
into the container and constrict it, and then
you can expand it to your heart's content.
If you ever want to duplicate something, it's relatively easy.
I just use copy and paste, you can do it up here,
Edit - Copy, and then, you know, Ctrl+V, and you can
copy it right there, and then you can use
grids for alignment, yada yada yada.
The last two things I want to show you are,
one, annotations, and two, then
how do we export? Now, annotations in Balsamiq are
controlled in really kind of a goofy way, we just
use it through stickies.
Now, go over to the Markup right here.
If I wanted to add something onto the page, like a comment
for someone else reading this, right here I
could put a sticky, and then put a description saying, you know,
"This is the screen that does this" or some
comment that you want other people to notice,
and then I can use arrows right here. If I want to change
the arrows, I have in the inspector ways of changing it, changing the size, the length, which way it points, in which direction,
in case I wanted to, say, point the sticky in
that direction. And there you go.
When you want to save your creations, you have to export them,
and you'll have to export them either as an image or a PDF,
or you can share it and use a share link online.
That's great if you want to share it with other people.
Otherwise, you'll have to export it and send it to them. If you want to create multiple mockups, by the way, you just click this,
and then you can create another mockup, and if you
click here, it'll show you all the mockups you have made.
When you then export, it'll put all of them together
into one long PDF, and if you have a lot of them,
they'll create a table of contents at the top.
All right guys, that is, for the most part,
all you need to know to get into Balsamiq and get dangerous.
There's a lot of other things I obviously didn't cover,
but you'll figure them out pretty quickly.
That is 90% of it.
All right guys, in the next lecture,
we're going to practice this just a little bit.
If you don't feel like you need practice, then just skip on
to the next lecture, it won't hurt my feelings.
For the rest of you guys, I'll see you in the next lecture.